Alternate Clustered deployment with kubit (#5199)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/clustered/install/deploy.md

weight: 104
---

Use Kubernetes and related tools to deploy your InfluxDB cluster.
This guide provides instructions for deploying your InfluxDB cluster using the
following tools:

- **kubectl**: CLI for controlling the Kubernetes cluster manager
- **kubit operator**: A Kubernetes controller that can render and apply jsonnet
  templates based on the [kubecfg](https://github.com/kubecfg/kubecfg) jsonnet
  tooling and framework

InfluxDB Clustered uses an `AppInstance` Kubernetes custom resource (CRD) to
configure and deploy your InfluxDB Cluster.
Installing a CRD requires cluster-wide permissions and may cause `kubectl` to
fail if you do not have those permissions in your cluster.

> `kubit` uses the your local `kubectl` credentials to install CRDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kubit` uses your local `kubectl` credentials to install CRDs.
```

weight: 104
---

Use Kubernetes and related tools to deploy your InfluxDB cluster.
This guide provides instructions for deploying your InfluxDB cluster using the
following tools:

- **kubectl**: CLI for controlling the Kubernetes cluster manager
- **kubit**: A Kubernetes controller that can render and apply jsonnet
  templates based on the [kubecfg](https://github.com/kubecfg/kubecfg) jsonnet
  tooling and framework

InfluxDB Clustered uses an `AppInstance` Kubernetes custom resource (CR) to
configure and deploy your InfluxDB Cluster.

> Installing a CR requires cluster-wide permissions and may cause `kubectl` to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installing a `CustomResourceDefinition` (CRD) requires cluster-wide permissions and may cause `kubectl` to
```

My apologies here, my explanation was a little poor on the CR vs CRD:

- `CustomResourceDefinition` is the API object in Kubernetes which defines the type.
- Custom Resource is an actual object which is not native to Kubernetes, watched by a custom controller. For example, an `AppInstance` is a custom resource watched by `kubit`.

It is the CRD itself which requires elevated permissions to install, because it installs a new object onto the entire cluster, i.e. that object becomes available to use in every namespace.

fail if you do not have those permissions in your cluster.

> `kubit` uses your local `kubectl` credentials to install CRs.
> This still requires you to have permissions to install cluster-wide resources
> (CRs), but doesn’t require `kubit` to be installed with those permissions
> in the cluster. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`kubit` uses your local `kubectl` credentials to install CRs.
This still requires you to have permissions to install cluster-wide resources
(CRs), but doesn’t require `kubit` to be installed with those permissions
in the cluster. 
```

I _sort of_ understand what this is trying to say, but I think it's quite confusing (partially because my explanation was poor beforehand).

In my opinion, this can likely be removed or rejigged to something to the effect of:

"Your local `kubectl` credentials will be used to install the `AppInstance` CRD. If you do not have those permissions available to you, an alternative is to install the package yourself. To do so, please install the [`kubit`](https://github.com/kubecfg/kubit#cli-tool) tool."

---

Below this I see there is mention of the CLI tool and `kubit local apply`, so I'm not sure exactly how this should be structured, but my thinking is either a quick mention to prepare an install OR simply linking down to the alternative if CRD installation is not possible.

{{% note %}}

> **If you meet any of the following criteria, [install and use the `kubit` CLI](https://github.com/kubecfg/kubit#cli-tool)
> on your local machine to use it as an operator from your local terminal and
> deploy your cluster:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**If you meet any of the following criteria, [install and use the `kubit` CLI](https://github.com/kubecfg/kubit#cli-tool)
on your local machine. This allows you to act as the operator would and deploy your cluster, but from your terminal**
```

My suggested wording might not be the best, but I think this makes more sense as the `kubit local apply` steps are there to allow a user to act as though _they_ were the operator instead from their terminal.

> - You do not have permissions to install a CR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You do not have permissions to install a CRD.
```

Similar to the explanation above, my bad on the poor explanation beforehand.

- You do not have permissions to install the operator in the `kubit` namespace.
- You do not have permissions to create cluster-wide role-based access
  control (RBAC).
- You want to preview the generated YAML.

> - You do not want to run the operator in your InfluxDB cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You do not want to run the operator in your Kubernetes cluster.
```

I believe this could be a typo, since it is a K8s cluster where the operator is installed rather than an InfluxDB cluster.

I might be missing some specific context though too :smile: Do we refer to a customer's K8s cluster as their "InfluxDB cluster"? Ignore me if so.

- You do not want to run the operator in your Kubernetes cluster.
{{% /note %}}

> <!-- Hidden anchor for links to the kubctl/kubit tabs -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<!-- Hidden anchor for links to the kubectl/kubit tabs -->
```

Minor typo here/where it's used, but otherwise this LGTM :rocket: Great stuff!

  --namespace influxdb
```

<!-------------------------------- END kubectl -------------------------------->
{{% /tab-content %}}
{{% tab-content %}}
<!-------------------------------- BEGIN kubit -------------------------------->

1.  [Install the `kubit` operator](https://github.com/kubecfg/kubit/#installation)
  and related tools.

2.  Use the `kubit local apply` command to apply your custom-configured
    `myinfluxdb.yml` and deploy your InfluxDB Cluster.

    ```sh
    kubit local apply myinfuxdb.yml

>     ```

Reviewer 2: Step 1 here requires the elevated permissions to install the `AppInstance` CRD. Once you run the 
`kubectl apply -k ...` part, that means the operator is running in the target cluster and there is no need to run `kubit local apply` (because it is already running).

I believe step 2 has been confused with the "I have minimal permissions/I'd like to act as the operator and try things out" possibility in `kubit`. If step 1 has been done, then a customer should run `kubectl apply -f myinfluxdb.yml`, i.e. "apply my `AppInstance` custom resource that I have" [1] and let the `kubit` operator handle that resource in the way it has been programmed to do.

By running the `kubit local apply` step, it would circumvent the previously installed operator entirely, as under the hood the `local apply` means "untar the given OCI bundle/package (Clustered), populate the required values, render the manifests as the operator would and then apply them". If a customer wants `kubit` to handle all of that then they should pass the `AppInstance` for Clustered to the Kubernetes API server (`kubectl apply`) and allow `kubit` to do the rest of it once it sees that the object has been created.

I understand that this can be quite confusing though, so I'm happy to go over it in more detail/step through it if you like too :blush: 

---
1. _Technically_ this does work, but only if you are wanting to act as the operator to test things out and step 1 isn't required in that case. I think it is potentially confusing to customers that they would _require_ `kubit` in order to apply their `AppInstance` (`myinfluxdb.yml` file), when in fact it is simply the regular `kubectl apply` operation that they would be used to.
